poftéște poftește
vrérea vrerea
Hănsarii Hănsari
începândŭ începând
zilii zili
ne­înduplecat neînduplecat
intratu intrat
Misiia Misia
Mahmetu Mahmet
Petralifii Petralifi
prenpregiuru prenpregiur
câmpu câmp
olatu olat
zăbăvindŭ zăbăvind
Calepiin Calepin
Rătezații Rătezați
rude­niile rudenile
Dalmațiia Dalmația
Grozavu Grozav
Acéia Aceia
scau­nul scaunul
po­porului poporului
Sirétem Siretem
jăluitorii jăluitori
Tamizu Tamiz
Braslavschii Braslavschi
Frăticeștii Frăticești
muritu murit
mulsu muls
bâr­fitor bârfitor
gândescu gândesc
goniia gonia
pedéstrimea pedestrimea
Ră­dăuți Rădăuți
préget preget
slovenescŭ slovenesc
aceștii acești
învéțe învețe
latinescu latinesc
înțeleptu înțelept
aședzări așezări
tovără­șiea tovărășiea
Robrostâmpu Robrostâmp
obicéiul obiceiul
păzitu păzit
Șendrii Șendri
Înaltu Înalt
rându rând
piscu pisc
multu mult
oșténii oșteni
lucrŭ lucr
ațâțatu ațâțat
Șipoteneștii Șipotenești
Țilițiia Țiliția
bulucindu bulucind
pa­pistașii papistași
darŭ dar
trebuiéște trebuiește
piiarză piarză
chiieme chieme
déde dede
mi­reasă mireasă
bi­sericile bisericile
orân­duesc orânduesc
cunoscŭ cunosc
sfétnici sfetnici
mu­barec mubarec
articéle articele
tocmescu tocmesc
teméinice temeinice
Bugeagŭ Bugeag
domnitu domnit
Le­șească Leșească
băr­bați bărbați
îm­părțesc împărțesc
izvodiia izvodia
nu­măr număr
dobrogéni dobrogeni
noștrii noștri
pribegitu pribegit
nevinovatu nevinovat
gătitu gătit
Petru Petr
Venețiia Veneția
Buorénii Buoreni
închinatu închinat
Helmu Helm
încălicatu încălicat
Sirétiu Siretiu
stă­pânirea stăpânirea
Pisacenschii Pisacenschi
Traianu Traian
Asiiatică Asiatică
Budii Budi
Plutarhŭ Plutarh
Pisatceschii Pisatceschi
boe­rii boeri
Racovițeștii Racovițești
Liovu Liov
meșterșuguindu meșterșuguind
pricépe pricepe
Oto­manii Otomani
rumânéște rumânește
Împreunatu Împreunat
Tutovii Tutovi
Tânăru Tânăr
povéstea povestea
coprinzândŭ coprinzând
îm­potriva împotriva
ri­dicat ridicat
Cându Când
fiilui filui
Ruschii Ruschi
ere­tică eretică
acéialaltă aceialaltă
Albu Alb
dom­nului domnului
Romanu Roman
Lăpușneanu Lăpușnean
Cavații Cavați
așteptatu așteptat
îndrăs­nind îndrăsnind
obiceiu­rile obiceiurile
teméinică temeinică
Tamerlanu Tamerlan
în­științeze înștințeze
chiiamă chiamă
săvâr­șindu săvârșind
semețéște semețește
spartu spart
Domnindu Domnind
Déciia Decia
ne­vrâsta nevrâsta
besérecii besereci
Moamethu Moameth
Létopisețul Letopisețul
neodi­huirilor neodihuirilor
însemnéze însemneze
Ar­himandriți Arhimandriți
némților nemților
stă­pânești stăpânești
îndes­tulare îndestulare
întâmplăn­du întâmplănd
răscol­nice răscolnice
împă­rătesc împărătesc
zvoréște zvorește
Mediiași Mediași
sămnŭ sămn
dzicând zicând
obiș­nuește obișnuește
dachii dachi
tot­deauna totdeauna
Jijiia Jijia
fétile fetile
dinlontru dinlontr
apropiiat apropiat
tăbărâtu tăbărât
legă­turile legăturile
să­geți săgeți
Trații Trați
Câmpulungenii Câmpulungeni
Piericopu Piericop
vrăjmașu vrăjmaș
Prusiia Prusia
țénchiul țenchiul
podolénii podoleni
avuțiia avuția
ra­zemă razemă
Așezândŭ Așezând
Împă­ratul Împăratul
Tuncischii Tuncischi
agonisin­du agonisind
lesescu lesesc
țiitoriiul țitoriiul
adésea adesea
Crâmu Crâm
târgŭ târg
vorovéște vorovește
Diva­nuri Divanuri
vistiiernicul vistiernicul
norocéște norocește
fél fel
scosése scosese
némérnicu nemernic
Isaiia Isaia
céste ceste
so­sind sosind
ceriia ceria
mucenicu mucenic
Albrehtu Albreht
stra­șinile strașinile
Mazoviia Mazovia
născutu născut
Iconiia Iconia
prădândŭ prădând
volniciia volnicia
pe­depse pedepse
Vor­nicul Vornicul
alergatu alergat
asémenea asemenea
Împără­tească Împărătească
fă­când făcând
obicéele obiceele
piierde pierde
Varticu Vartic
Tăta­rilor Tătarilor
Drago­șeștilor Dragoșeștilor
aședzându așezând
fiește­carele fieștecarele
Dra­goșesc Dragoșesc
lătinescŭ lătinesc
Smilii Smili
Moraviia Moravia
făcatu făcat
polații polați
vicleniia viclenia
ďèńŕíiŕ ďeńŕíiŕ
lipsescu lipsesc
pustiiește pustiește
priieten prieten
rândŭ rând
Îm­părătești Împărătești
nesăvârșindu nesăvârșind
gre­cească grecească
bolgarii bolgari
închizândŭ închizând
Galațiia Galația
obi­ceiul obiceiul
răs­plătească răsplătească
Apuliia Apulia
dregă­torie dregătorie
cu­noscuți cunoscuți
Moscŭ Mosc
Baiazitu Baiazit
odi­nioară odinioară
vestitŭ vestit
portŭ port
tumănii tumăni
deșărtu deșărt
îngropatu îngropat
săgetatu săgetat
împingăndu împingănd
Hanu Han
raru rar
Cândŭ Când
domniia domnia
ciilalți cilalți
pe­depsește pedepsește
Bobolețschii Bobolețschi
domniie domnie
Târgșoru Târgșor
învăliia învălia
Sucevii Sucevi
închinatŭ închinat
Demarcapu Demarcap
hrănéște hrănește
Sucévii Sucevi
portogalii portogali
frâncéște frâncește
mo­nahicești monahicești
Sohodolschii Sohodolschi
dreptŭ drept
izbânditu izbândit
Împă­rătești Împărătești
Eu­stație Eustație
fățăriie fățărie
izbăvitu izbăvit
îngro­pare îngropare
Oituzu Oituz
Dachii Dachi
trăéscŭ trăesc
dovenescu dovenesc
Domniia Domnia
ieșiia ieșia
Avstriia Avstria
îndelungatu îndelungat
întradâncu întradânc
rân­duială rânduială
în­tr într
Traianŭ Traian
huléște hulește
pof­tindu poftind
diprinsése diprinsese
agonisescu agonisesc
Mol­dovinești Moldovinești
săimu săim
strângiia strângia
rătundŭ rătund
trăiia trăia
din­tr dintr
închi­puire închipuire
Hinceștii Hincești
aședzate așezate
testa­mentul testamentul
vinovățindu vinovățind
domnescŭ domnesc
Cai­macami Caimacami
vis­teriei visteriei
Sul­tanului Sultanului
gătéască gătească
putém putem
volnicu volnic
némți nemți
priietin prietin
pri­sos prisos
Dispotu Dispot
Ochiianul Ochianul
auzitŭ auzit
avérea averea
Iaroslavu Iaroslav
Dumnedzău Dumnezău
Gabriil Gabril
zécile zecile
urmatu urmat
trimisése trimisese
leagănu leagăn
ne­guțătoria neguțătoria
Evan­gheliei Evangheliei
grijăscu grijăsc
vacŭ vac
Odriiu Odriu
chizmitu chizmit
Rabâii Rabâi
totŭ tot
dzicŭ zic
Vi­ziri Viziri
înșelatu înșelat
dése dese
tocmélele tocmelele
Portii Porti
lip­siți lipsiți
Mongu Mong
Colomiia Colomia
Sucévei Sucevei
preuții preuți
adu­nare adunare
derége derege
să­rutându sărutând
Schiudériul Schiuderiul
mărturiséște mărturisește
vrémea vremea
pre­lungită prelungită
năra­vurile năravurile
ale­gorii alegori
Chiliia Chilia
léato leato
răz­boiu războiu
Boazŭ Boaz
solații solați
cățélii cățeli
soru sor
înțe­lepciunea înțelepciunea
sosiia sosia
năvă­lirile năvălirile
popoa­rele popoarele
aflăndu aflănd
pro­hodul prohodul
Des­pot Despot
trânșii trânși
Vechiŭ Vechiu
tristu trist
poreclitu poreclit
pu­nerea punerea
Moldo­venească Moldovenească
Huminschii Huminschi
lăuntru lăuntr
gătiia gătia
înecatu înecat
soséște sosește
împăratŭ împărat
creștinéști creștinești
dân­sul dânsul
lepădândŭ lepădând
cucérnic cucernic
ajutoritu ajutorit
fugitu fugit
timpinatu timpinat
prădatu prădat
Evdochiia Evdochia
Covațiiocie Covațiocie
măcarŭ măcar
Crédem Credem
creștinéște creștinește
chipu chip
Cirimișu Cirimiș
soliia solia
primenéle primenele
cevluiescu cevluiesc
amă­gitoare amăgitoare
Matéiașu Mateiaș
isto­ricii istorici
dzile zile
grecescu grecesc
poftoritu poftorit
sin­gură singură
Cretcovschii Cretcovschi
Nazari­nesc Nazarinesc
ce­rească cerească
păziia păzia
zdro­bească zdrobească
priimi primi
inicéri iniceri
Vizi­rul Vizirul
boeri­lor boerilor
ficioru ficior
ce­loralalți celoralalți
gonitu gonit
repezitu repezit
nădéjdea nădejdea
léși leși
șerbiie șerbie
ho­tărîtă hotărîtă
dreptu drept
Albaniții Albaniți
Brânco­veanu Brâncovean
priimiți primiți
dom­nești domnești
giosénii gioseni
Înțelége Înțelege
supusése supusese
împăratu împărat
pribégi pribegi
neputându neputând
acéiași aceiași
poménitu pomenit
mingrelii mingreli
Schiții Schiți
biséricilor bisericilor
Tălăbeștii Tălăbești
Orbu Orb
cuvântŭ cuvânt
lu­creze lucreze
nemțescu nemțesc
Oto­mană Otomană
țăra­nul țăranul
sécită secită
Liflantŭ Liflant
rîvnindŭ rîvnind
Vârlăneștii Vârlănești
tinzii tinzi
înéce înece
prorociia prorocia
mirŭ mir
ospéțe ospețe
robiia robia
Lănțeștii Lănțești
dzicea zicea
Ciucŭ Ciuc
dzimbrul zimbrul
Mariia Maria
fostu fost
iubescu iubesc
nedéjdea nedejdea
dintrŭ dintr
căutatu căutat
Troadii Troadi
ia­răși iarăși
schimbatu schimbat
patrio­ților patrioților
ungurescu unguresc
franțozii franțozi
răsipiia răsipia
priietinul prietinul
diiac diac
ze­ciuială zeciuială
dzicem zicem
hro­nicile hronicile
Aronu Aron
Créțul Crețul
Iliașu Iliaș
paharniceii paharnicei
urmă­toriu următoriu
heretisindu heretisind
zăbréle zăbrele
omenescŭ omenesc
osârdiia osârdia
Îm­părăteștei Împărăteștei
întrînșii întrînși
mitropoliia mitropolia
rugă­mintea rugămintea
Historiile Historile
stăpâniia stăpânia
décii deci
viclenitu viclenit
cre­dincioase credincioase
ale­gerea alegerea
Mitro­polit Mitropolit
Înaltŭ Înalt
făgăduitu făgăduit
Ciau­șilor Ciaușilor
scrisése scrisese
bătiia bătia
réle rele
împe­dică împedică
vécinicul vecinicul
împreunatu împreunat
făcè făce
pomăzuitu pomăzuit
multŭ mult
direptății direptăți
féliurile feliurile
Adriian Adrian
néștene neștene
dzice zice
obicéi obicei
săpatŭ săpat
mân­care mâncare
Moldove­nii Moldoveni
vredni­cule vrednicule
féliuri feliuri
Stăvăreștii Stăvărești
surpatu surpat
Tăutuleștii Tăutulești
nemeritŭ nemerit
totu tot
mire­sei miresei
ba­nilor banilor
bi­rul birul
Pomenéște Pomenește
ho­tărî hotărî
Dumnădzău Dumnăzău
ze­ciuiala zeciuiala
plângŭ plâng
vrémi vremi
féliu feliu
picatu picat
curândŭ curând
Genuesii Genuesi
vréme vreme
Gavrilițeștii Gavrilițești
bugegéni bugegeni
Capi­gilar Capigilar
ră­mâne rămâne
pă­zești păzești
Tudureștii Tudurești
he­retisit heretisit
giudéțe giudețe
ieșitu ieșit
Tăncenschii Tăncenschi
intratŭ intrat
ce­tatea cetatea
mutatŭ mutat
sârgŭ sârg
cneadzia cneazia
Alixandru Alixandr
Tur­cilor Turcilor
Alexandriia Alexandria
Caima­cami Caimacami
înnéce înnece
ju­decata judecata
făgă­duesc făgăduesc
Îm­părăteștii Împărătești
tovaroșii tovaroși
ugrii ugri
surgunŭ surgun
spieriia spieria
păriia păria
stăpâ­nirile stăpânirile
neplecându neplecând
aguitoriŭ aguitoriu
ghenuvezii ghenuvezi
barba­rilor barbarilor
aminosindu aminosind
Pașcovschii Pașcovschi
cortu cort
ur­mează urmează
putérnici puternici
deciia decia
răsipitu răsipit
vorovitu vorovit
diiaconi diaconi
putérnicu puternic
Ța­rigrad Țarigrad
moșnéni moșneni
Roseteștii Rosetești
Cârlegăturii Cârlegături
scrip­turi scripturi
întunérice întunerice
Movileștii Movilești
Prăjeștii Prăjești
vitéji viteji
răsăpindu răsăpind
Vasluenii Vaslueni
ferecându ferecând
Cantacuzenii Cantacuzeni
franțojii franțoji
slobo­zesc slobozesc
Léșii Leși
Răspundzŭ Răspunz
vatavii vatavi
Dragoșu Dragoș
orânduiescu orânduiesc
dispărțitu dispărțit
sorocénii soroceni
dobân­dit dobândit
obi­ceiurile obiceiurile
cestilalții cestilalți
Ro­mânești Românești
dobânditu dobândit
sârguitu sârguit
Hăzareștii Hăzarești
hișpanii hișpani
céialaltă ceialaltă
întăiŭ întăiu
râniia rânia
înțelégem înțelegem
lo­cuitorii locuitori
niguțătoréște niguțătorește
priitenească pritenească
dzicé zice
Carintiia Carintia
Araviia Aravia
sinéțe sinețe
vistérnic visternic
Talpeștii Talpești
nemțescŭ nemțesc
norocu noroc
rude­niilor rudenilor
poménitŭ pomenit
sositu sosit
véchie vechie
alianții alianți
létopisețu letopiseț
priv­dorul privdorul
tur­cești turcești
ianovedzi ianovezi
gonitŭ gonit
părăsitu părăsit
Solonețu Soloneț
létopisețe letopisețe
meșteșugu­rilor meșteșugurilor
nŭoi nuoi
vi­novat vinovat
dzac zac
că­ruia căruia
răcitu răcit
mușcatinu mușcatin
ca­petele capetele
Marchiianopolis Marchianopolis
Stega­rului Stegarului
Zborovschii Zborovschi
acéstea acestea
ungurescŭ unguresc
Céle Cele
făcân­du făcând
bătutu bătut
schimbatŭ schimbat
decâtŭ decât
fostŭ fost
hotă­rând hotărând
oste­neală osteneală
Brașovu Brașov
dintru dintr
Acii Aci
Locui­torii Locuitori
Mi­tropolitul Mitropolitul
ianovedzii ianovezi
Priiam Priam
aceștiia aceștia
priimască primască
Barnovschii Barnovschi
giuruindu giuruind
dăruiescu dăruiesc
căutatŭ căutat
nemeritu nemerit
întorsése întorsese
Bârseii Bârsei
Cataiia Cataia
ereticiia ereticia
ciudése ciudese
lă­săm lăsăm
arginterii arginteri
pociŭ pociu
Capigii Capigi
Tefterda­rului Tefterdarului
Zorileștii Zorilești
cu­vânt cuvânt
Pisatcenschii Pisatcenschi
statu stat
Niculeștii Niculești
Dumini­cele Duminicele
fărădelége fărădelege
putérnică puternică
pravoslaviia pravoslavia
împărțitu împărțit
Laconiia Laconia
povéste poveste
sfârșitŭ sfârșit
acélŭ acel
împodobindŭ împodobind
Dațiia Dația
pusése pusese
nefăcându nefăcând
cârmuitŭ cârmuit
bistricénii bistriceni
citescŭ citesc
le­gea legea
a­mândoi amândoi
dindărătu dindărăt
îmbrăcatu îmbrăcat
Tecinschii Tecinschi
Bielschii Bielschi
răspunsŭ răspuns
mergŭ merg
Caspiia Caspia
Decii Deci
Tiganii Tigani
Herbortu Herbort
arcu arc
sate­lor satelor
tulbu­rărilor tulburărilor
îndireptéze îndirepteze
războiŭ războiu
tălhărescu tălhăresc
Răutu Răut
masaghetii masagheti
suntŭ sunt
stăpânu stăpân
stăpâ­niri stăpâniri
ieșitŭ ieșit
biséricii biserici
pedestrașŭ pedestraș
pléce plece
adunân­du adunând
Evbeiia Evbeia
pomenindŭ pomenind
leșescŭ leșesc
Asiia Asia
ne­măsurată nemăsurată
curténii curteni
dă­ruit dăruit
tribuiéște tribuiește
rugatu rugat
în­dărăpt îndărăpt
dzimbru zimbr
piiae piae
argintu argint
împăcatu împăcat
sârgu sârg
némții nemți
alése alese
Șchiiopul Șchiopul
Carpații Carpați
Moldove­nilor Moldovenilor
căzăcescŭ căzăcesc
semnŭ semn
notceagoșu notceagoș
acést acest
creș­terea creșterea
cum­plite cumplite
perdu perd
vi­novățit vinovățit
vrédnic vrednic
rodéște rodește
să­nătoase sănătoase
venitŭ venit
Bogdanu Bogdan
sculatu sculat
cismarii cismari
împo­trivă împotrivă
péște pește
Moldove­nească Moldovenească
spin­ticând spinticând
orbu orb
priiteșug priteșug
urméze urmeze
neviindu nevind
decâtu decât
zmintéște zmintește
belghii belghi
muntenescŭ muntenesc
ace­leași aceleași
eparhiia eparhia
cândŭ când
răsăritu răsărit
iernatu iernat
Ciaușii Ciauși
mă­năstirii mănăstiri
adu­nându adunând
încoi­fați încoifați
pămân­tului pământului
Hasne­ Hasne
celebii celebi
­Aga Aga
ajutoriia ajutoria
vânatu vânat
Can­diea Candiea
deșertŭ deșert
Panevschii Panevschi
Tă­tarilor Tătarilor
bisérica biserica
frântu frânt
dzic zic
Albertu Albert
nimé nime
bisérici biserici
ru­găciunile rugăciunile
cunoștiia cunoștia
Țari­grad Țarigrad
grijiia grijia
dzis zis
sloboziia slobozia
curugii curugi
adăogiia adăogia
Mol­dova Moldova
șea­selea șeaselea
moldovénilorŭ moldovenilor
asu­prit asuprit
Stărceștii Stărcești
podoléni podoleni
pri­mește primește
nepriieteni neprieteni
bu­cată bucată
în­lăuntru înlăuntr
Capigi­bașa Capigibașa
iu­bind iubind
mersu mers
flămânziciunii flămânziciuni
Anténor Antenor
zéce zece
Tătă­rească Tătărească
poménim pomenim
ță­ranii țărani
nesta­tornic nestatornic
feliŭ feliu
Moldo­venești Moldovenești
machidonénii machidoneni
dirésile diresile
poménit pomenit
adinsu adins
vitejiia vitejia
înșe­lați înșelați
alesése alesese
folositu folosit
stăpâ­nitorii stăpânitori
Rădicatu Rădicat
ardéleni ardeleni
sârbu sârb
svetii sveti
înmulțitu înmulțit
Chighéciu Chigheciu
dobânditŭ dobândit
împăr­țit împărțit
iubéște iubește
Bul­gari Bulgari
turnŭ turn
Bogdăneștii Bogdănești
Lucrețiia Lucreția
grecescŭ grecesc
Pa­triei Patriei
căzacii căzaci
Schimne­ Schimne
Câmpu Câmp
rezeșii rezeși
pricépem pricepem
grijitu grijit
pătrunsu pătruns
acéle acele
Dumne­zeiasca Dumnezeiasca
șăzutu șăzut
Chiulahlii Chiulahli
țiitoriu țitoriu
Vizirii Viziri
împinsu împins
acéstu acest
chel­tuea cheltuea
umpléa umplea
tălhărescŭ tălhăresc
lovéște lovește
polcu polc
robitu robit
priimit primit
priveghiia priveghia
spahiioglani spahioglani
nemaiputându nemaiputând
priimim primim
hri­soavele hrisoavele
mergu merg
răspunsu răspuns
râmléni râmleni
împărățitŭ împărățit
feritu ferit
pomenéște pomenește
su­pușilor supușilor
Tartariia Tartaria
gru­majii grumaji
Ște­fan Ștefan
prinsése prinsese
poftescu poftesc
arătămu arătăm
denlăuntru denlăuntr
Chiefè Chiefe
Etoliia Etolia
pustiitŭ pustit
Murguleștii Murgulești
chesariŭ chesariu
răsipescu răsipesc
zălojăscu zălojăsc
Întorcându Întorcând
dândŭ dând
slujitu slujit
Iașii Iași
Raco­vitză Racovitză
înșii înși
avutu avut
mergiia mergia
vrăj­mași vrăjmași
Istoriia Istoria
pome­nește pomenește
céștealalții ceștealalți
obiiele obiele
rostŭ rost
pustiitate pustitate
intrebându intrebând
tineréțile tinerețile
venitu venit
treisprăzéce treisprăzece
tocmitu tocmit
câtŭ cât
Iașiloru Iașilor
sculatŭ sculat
Suntŭ Sunt
fârșitŭ fârșit
acésta acesta
slovații slovați
trei­lea treilea
acéla acela
Sinenschii Sinenschi
acéste aceste
munténii munteni
oprescu opresc
cunoscândŭ cunoscând
italiianilor italianilor
năvăliia năvălia
Pontŭ Pont
cruțindu cruțind
întâl­nesc întâlnesc
scotu scot
încépe începe
adevăratu adevărat
Erimiia Erimia
um­plut umplut
neînsemnatu neînsemnat
acéia aceia
articulii articuli
odihniia odihnia
sem­nele semnele
troadénii troadeni
Împără­tesc Împărătesc
muntenescu muntenesc
céiași ceiași
pri­cină pricină
po­runcindu poruncind
pohodnicii pohodnici
Suleimanu Suleiman
sin­gura singura
amiadzădzi amiazădzi
oșteniia oștenia
Cutlu Cutl
besérică beserică
tribuieșté tribuiește
astădzi astăzi
crăiescu crăiesc
târdziu târziu
italiienilor italienilor
Viiața Viața
Clucereștii Clucerești
negândindu negândind
mi­resei miresei
cunoștiița cunoștița
îndzăstrat înzăstrat
lémne lemne
munténilorŭ muntenilor
dătunatu dătunat
gâlce­vitoare gâlcevitoare
ple­cat plecat
satu sat
dusu dus
ade­vărată adevărată
Fleacŭ Fleac
strigatu strigat
că­mărași cămărași
prisoséște prisosește
săcuii săcui
orezu orez
povodnicii povodnici
Crasițschii Crasițschi
mărturiia mărturia
Darieștii Dariești
Nipru Nipr
triilea trilea
pustiisă pustisă
Îndemnatu Îndemnat
megiiași megiași
Lăpușnéanul Lăpușneanul
fe­răriei ferăriei
hranii hrani
Barbarezii Barbarezi
viniia vinia
dăruitu dăruit
unghiŭ unghiu
Dumne­zeu Dumnezeu
capigii capigi
ținiia ținia
Împă­ratului Împăratului
întâmplatu întâmplat
lățiia lăția
îngrădiia îngrădia
podu pod
iertatu iertat
slujitoriŭ slujitoriu
românéște românește
Mușatu Mușat
vi­tejește vitejește
cându când
véste veste
răsipéște răsipește
Conețpolschii Conețpolschi
inicérii iniceri
Capadochiia Capadochia
Azanii Azani
șvedzii șvezi
înțelége înțelege
Cernăuții Cernăuți
plătescu plătesc
lipiia lipia
de­scrierea descrierea
odnodvorții odnodvorți
Mol­dovenilor Moldovenilor
dinșii dinși
închi­nat închinat
lovindŭ lovind
Împăra­tului Împăratului
pe­zevenchiului pezevenchiului
curățescu curățesc
triimitea trimitea
jalnicu jalnic
împărățitu împărățit
bătrânéțe bătrânețe
însăr­cinat însărcinat
vediia vedia
bulucitu bulucit
căIă­rașilor căIărașilor
arsu ars
vru vr
plătéște plătește
amân­doror amândoror
românescŭ românesc
Trestiiană Trestiană
neavându neavând
înțe­legere înțelegere
neîmpăcându neîmpăcând
frigŭ frig
cerescu ceresc
Imira­horul Imirahorul
purtatu purtat
cu­tare cutare
pu­indu puind
sirétem siretem
Mol­dovei Moldovei
Agalerii Agaleri
beséreca besereca
Beiliccii Beilicci
scri­soare scrisoare
Moscu Mosc
prețu preț
Pierieslavu Pierieslav
sțitii sțiti
obiș­nuite obișnuite
îngă­duit îngăduit
sufletu suflet
Ciiarcă Ciarcă
Căpriiana Căpriana
așizatu așizat
Suntu Sunt
cârmuiéște cârmuiește
Moldii Moldi
ponoslu ponosl
trăitŭ trăit
avutŭ avut
Pilateștii Pilatești
lefeciilor lefecilor
pâ­rându pârând
adevă­rată adevărată
scrisŭ scris
stătătoriŭ stătătoriu
Cămă­rașul Cămărașul
facu fac
ca­sele casele
încunjurândŭ încunjurând
rumănii rumăni
tătărăscu tătărăsc
hălăduitŭ hălăduit
în­voiala învoiala
Petriceicu Petriceic
târgu târg
descă­lecarea descălecarea
botezatu botezat
terțiiani terțiani
Apos­tolilor Apostolilor
Sfidriial Sfidrial
Îm­păratului Împăratului
dân­du dând
înfricoșindu înfricoșind
Turculețeștii Turculețești
streinilorŭ streinilor
Mira­lem Miralem
împărțiia împărția
Schiudér Schiuder
ine­lele inelele
Valahiia Valahia
aflŭ afl
Topéltin Topeltin
obiș­nuia obișnuia
cumu cum
Cartalu Cartal
Ganeștii Ganești
mer­gându mergând
nepriietenul neprietenul
Rusiia Rusia
ospățu ospăț
tine­rilor tinerilor
pră­dat prădat
homélnicu homelnic
rătăciia rătăcia
muntèni munteni
domnescu domnesc
Acéste Aceste
țărmu țărm
Lolonii Loloni
Acésta Acesta
so­sește sosește
bise­ricești bisericești
mă­rit mărit
arătatŭ arătat
Șahmetu Șahmet
pieritu pierit
cetitŭ cetit
Capigi­bașii Capigibași
Sarmațiia Sarmația
Pompeiŭ Pompeiu
prințipii prințipi
prafu praf
apucu apuc
Giosu Gios
Décia Decia
curățin­du curățind
foloséște folosește
sacuii sacui
Logo­făt Logofăt
aducândŭ aducând
Décii Deci
létopisățul letopisățul
Isaceștii Isacești
Buțurenii Buțureni
piiéle piele
scorniia scornia
feméia femeia
Sturzeștii Sturzești
carățașii carățași
îndăstulatŭ îndăstulat
negu­țătorii neguțători
aș­teaptă așteaptă
ru­șine rușine
mulțămitu mulțămit
diva­nul divanul
ec­tenie ectenie
prepusése prepusese
vecerniia vecernia
Iustiniian Iustinian
semețiia semeția
meș­teșug meșteșug
ne­voesc nevoesc
Idiccii Idicci
Prédosloviia Predoslovia
îmbărbătéze îmbărbăteze
repedzi repezi
sfiinte sfinte
direptŭ dirept
Roma­nești Romanești
așe­zându așezând
năbușitŭ năbușit
Râmnicu Râmnic
olteanŭ oltean
aceiia aceia
suntu sunt
Datu Dat
olașŭ olaș
lefecii lefeci
piielea pielea
ro­ditoare roditoare
Războienii Războieni
în­doială îndoială
vechiŭ vechiu
prisăcăriia prisăcăria
hălăduitu hălăduit
dom­nilor domnilor
domnindu domnind
biruitu biruit
împrumutândŭ împrumutând
vâ­nătorii vânători
ni­minea niminea
îndrăznitu îndrăznit
celélalte celelalte
cur­ții curți
as­culte asculte
răscumpăratu răscumpărat
în­tărire întărire
dra­goste dragoste
spă­tărie spătărie
izvodescŭ izvodesc
păcatŭ păcat
fericatu fericat
strânsése strânsese
céstelalte cestelalte
tătaru tătar
frigu frig
aléseră aleseră
poftitu poftit
pomenescŭ pomenesc
învățatu învățat
mergândŭ mergând
fiiu fiu
Costineștii Costinești
blagos­lovenie blagoslovenie
Țari­gradești Țarigradești
Brusiia Brusia
védere vedere
ci­neva cineva
cu­noașteți cunoașteți
blagos­lovenia blagoslovenia
tru­pul trupul
Cazaculu Cazacul
leșescu leșesc
Iliriia Iliria
Carabașeștii Carabașești
muncitu muncit
Strigoniia Strigonia
Hișpaniia Hișpania
judecatu judecat
troadénilor troadenilor
pieritŭ pierit
lățitu lățit
olatŭ olat
cin­stita cinstita
Jicmontu Jicmont
Țifeștii Țifești
căzăcescu căzăcesc
izbândiia izbândia
tocméle tocmele
Carpeștii Carpești
ne­guțători neguțători
sârbăscu sârbăsc
acéște acește
crédință credință
județu județ
întrŭ într
copaciŭ copaciu
facŭ fac
Șoldăneștii Șoldănești
zmintélile zmintelile
mă­tasă mătasă
avăndu avănd
zécea zecea
italiienii italienii
Răspunzŭ Răspunz
drep­tate dreptate
Avgustu Avgust
Bouleștii Boulești
Mărgândŭ Mărgând
făliia fălia
fălindu fălind
Cantemireștii Cantemirești
boie­riei boieriei
stropșitu stropșit
so­borul soborul
pândzăle pânzăle
lăpușnénii lăpușneni
Ahmetu Ahmet
bărbatu bărbat
cérce cerce
stă­pânul stăpânul
os­tașilor ostașilor
sârbăscŭ sârbăsc
léșilor leșilor
spuindu spuind
sa­bia sabia
vă­zându văzând
bu­cățică bucățică
Mihuleștii Mihulești
Epis­copii Episcopi
hara­ciul haraciul
biseri­cească bisericească
orbŭ orb
bise­ricii biserici
disvino­vățiri disvinovățiri
lăcomiia lăcomia
Ita­lienești Italienești
sfatu sfat
Buceațschii Buceațschi
poruncitu poruncit
niiam niam
ur­meze urmeze
Ar­meni Armeni
așè așe
împărățiie împărăție
Pomoranu Pomoran
Bulugbașii Bulugbași
împărățiia împărăția
feriia feria
stă­pânitorii stăpânitori
Vor­nicii Vornici
stândŭ stând
înnecatu înnecat
poreclescu poreclesc
ierbăriia ierbăria
italiianului italianului
răpedzit răpezit
Crasneșu Crasneș
trecândŭ trecând
vi­tejia vitejia
oșténi oșteni
pen­trucă pentrucă
neștiindu neștind
habeșii habeși
hronografiile hronografile
nohaii nohai
crești­nești creștinești
trăgândŭ trăgând
trăiéște trăiește
dichemvrii dichemvri
pristăvitu pristăvit
gându gând
Totoeștii Totoești
nu­mai numai
gândiiai gândiai
gătitŭ gătit
nea­mului neamului
mersŭ mers
stăpâni­torii stăpânitori
direptu dirept
mân­driea mândriea
atuncè atunce
omu om
jude­cata judecata
Acéstea Acestea
credin­cioase credincioase
alcă­tuită alcătuită
moștiile moștile
Lungu Lung
Davidovschii Davidovschi
șop­titurile șoptiturile
acélea acelea
întorcu întorc
atingu ating
vécinice vecinice
tăiatu tăiat
bo­găție bogăție
vécinica vecinica
dobândescŭ dobândesc
canoa­nele canoanele
cre­dincios credincios
lipitu lipit
séte sete
chel­tuelile cheltuelile
Bâcu Bâc
părésemi păresemi
Borusiia Borusia
luatu luat
împărechiierea împărechierea
Tomșii Tomși
dentru dentr
di­vanul divanul
hotă­rârea hotărârea
Par­tenie Partenie
alțiia alția
închi­puirile închipuirile
apucatŭ apucat
Se­raschierului Seraschierului
Vister­nicul Visternicul
Îm­păratul Împăratul
puținu puțin
dusése dusese
mérgeți mergeți
scădére scădere
Mielițschii Mielițschi
tocméște tocmește
căriia căria
îndelungu îndelung
En­glezilor Englezilor
Ștefăneștii Ștefănești
ziditŭ zidit
sârbescu sârbesc
doisprăzéce doisprăzece
Udriiu Udriu
în­vățături învățături
gă­sesc găsesc
mérge merge
pe­trece petrece
Putnii Putni
eiliie eilie
Tanschii Tanschi
ajunsu ajuns
aflatŭ aflat
Camenițschii Camenițschi
descăle­carea descălecarea
orân­duească orânduească
Câtŭ Cât
patrusprăzéce patrusprăzece
fiiului fiului
învăță­turile învățăturile
țiindu țind
însémnatu însemnat
huliia hulia
acopierindu acopierind
aședzat așezat
al­cătuite alcătuite
vre­mele vremele
priieteșugul prieteșugul
țiind țind
zădar­nice zădarnice
semințiia seminția
băr­batului bărbatului
béți beți
sémne semne
Babihumaiulu Babihumaiul
în­toarcerea întoarcerea
Împăratu Împărat
năzuitu năzuit
cu­rat curat
gardinalii gardinali
amân­doi amândoi
bătrânu bătrân
Avgustŭ Avgust
Chiematu Chiemat
sfântulu sfântul
cumnatu cumnat
os­tași ostași
întinsu întins
acestu acest
a­duce aduce
co­năcarilor conăcarilor
Chievschii Chievschi
țerimoniile țerimonile
Tarcvinii Tarcvini
Léșască Leșască
izbândescu izbândesc
strâm­bătate strâmbătate
crăiia crăia
Piasenschii Piasenschi
lipséște lipsește
Ța­rigradului Țarigradului
po­doabă podoabă
ěwëäŕâńęiè ěwëäŕâńęie
tă­găduesc tăgăduesc
râvnindŭ râvnind
ascunsu ascuns
cre­dința credința
dățăscŭ dățăsc
făméia fămeia
tiit tit
făméie fămeie
grecu grec
neastâmpăratu neastâmpărat
avére avere
némișii nemiși
flămându flămând
ves­tească vestească
pritoriiani pritoriani
Dachiia Dachia
Iazlovețschii Iazlovețschi
Găneștii Gănești
Mi­tropoliții Mitropoliți
ascuțitu ascuțit
purcésiră purcesiră
lățitŭ lățit
arzândŭ arzând
patŭ pat
italiian italian
piiele piele
Sigmenii Sigmeni
largu larg
Patriar­hul Patriarhul
Sélim Selim
Albrihtu Albriht
credu cred
destulu destul
tuturorŭ tuturor
mo­șiile moșile
postélnic postelnic
semnu semn
mărturisescu mărturisesc
Vădu Văd
Trebuiéște Trebuiește
îndrep­tează îndreptează
priietinilor prietinilor
pustiiu pustiu
îzbucnéște îzbucnește
pri­mesc primesc
văru văr
Tobacu Tobac
îm­pacă împacă
ospătatu ospătat
Cârstii Cârsti
Căușeii Căușei
gheografiile gheografile
priimescu primesc
Vișnovețschii Vișnovețschi
trebu­ință trebuință
întâm­pină întâmpină
nepriietenii neprietenii
vreunii vreuni
véche veche
pomenitŭ pomenit
împrăștiiați împrăștiați
Belzu Belz
întorcându întorcând
Săpoténi Săpoteni
putérnicului puternicului
dormiia dormia
lépede lepede
moldovénilor moldovenilor
Abazeștii Abazești
cu­getele cugetele
Urecheștii Urechești
molgomozorii molgomozori
pédéstrească pedestrească
aciè acie
grecéște grecește
nevestii nevesti
boierinu boierin
niguțătorescu niguțătoresc
Thessaliia Thessalia
Schitii Schiti
dre­gătoria dregătoria
băgatu băgat
létopisețile letopisețile
birŭ bir
acmu acm
ziciia zicia
da­torie datorie
Arhi­mandrit Arhimandrit
arhie­reului arhiereului
întunéric întuneric
lucratŭ lucrat
Brateșu Brateș
priimiia primiia
frâncescu frâncesc
aștépte aștepte
îndemnatŭ îndemnat
înfrângândŭ înfrângând
Pravoslaviia Pravoslavia
Grețiia Greția
patrierșii patrierși
Matiiașu Matiaș
tăgăduiescu tăgăduiesc
in­trând intrând
prânzu prânz
con­știința conștința
jupânésile jupânesile
arméni armeni
Petrovaradinu Petrovaradin
înlontru înlontr
aflatu aflat
sluj­bile slujbile
plătitu plătit
Dom­nesc Domnesc
ne­cinsti necinsti
piedzii piezi
ianovezii ianovezi
íŕ÷ŕëńňâuțmu íŕ÷ŕëńňâuțm
cre­dință credință
Vizi­rului Vizirului
apropiiatu apropiat
înglotitu înglotit
vântu vânt
obiș­nuesc obișnuesc
pândză pânză
făcutŭ făcut
obiceiŭ obiceiu
amân­două amândouă
arătatu arătat
râmlenéște râmlenește
slujăscu slujăsc
sfătuitu sfătuit
cerșutu cerșut
ță­rii țări
su­flete suflete
Farme­cul Farmecul
scurtu scurt
neléneșu neleneș
ivitu ivit
z­boi zboi
Di­vanului Divanului
sluj­bele slujbele
margi­nile marginile
Sirétiul Siretiul
Dum­nezeu Dumnezeu
Visterni­cului Visternicului
vrémile vremile
Mihnii Mihni
pri­mească primească
jurământu jurământ
privéște privește
ace­lora acelora
gândiia gândia
fugându fugând
Bitiniia Bitinia
văzândŭ văzând
mângâiatu mângâiat
fronsu frons
létopisețul letopisețul
visteriia visteria
Frățiléni Frățileni
Botășanii Botășani
ri­dicându ridicând
mesii mesi
acestŭ acest
Iliiaș Iliaș
neguță­torie neguțătorie
Tarnovschii Tarnovschi
bi­ruind biruind
bucurosu bucuros
pof­torească poftorească
Căiatii Căiati
Maramoroșu Maramoroș
Minunatu Minunat
cerșu cerș
răs­puns răspuns
hiianii hianii
stinsu stins
Arbureștii Arburești
nă­ravuri năravuri
ca­pului capului
săvârșitu săvârșit
Mol­dovean Moldovean
Italii Itali
svétnicilor svetnicilor
despartŭ despart
răspundŭ răspund
grécească grecească
hănii hăni
lăsândŭ lăsând
Sirétiului Siretiului
ochi­lor ochilor
Unguriia Unguria
apére apere
si­lit silit
păscarii păscari
apucatu apucat
trân­dăvirea trândăvirea
altu alt
a­celuia aceluia
câtu cât
piiatră piatră
stolnicu stolnic
așe­zate așezate
ho­tărâre hotărâre
vre­unul vreunul
fe­mei femei
înoirii înoiri
tre­bue trebue
rănitu rănit
puin­du puind
prileju prilej
sicriiul sicriul
tur­cesc turcesc
Franțezii Franțezi
so­coteau socoteau
Brăilii Brăili
milosti­vului milostivului
Ochiianu Ochian
cântăreții cântăreți
purtă­rile purtările
Mileștii Milești
Vi­zirului Vizirului
nevoitu nevoit
céa cea
soco­tește socotește
adul­mecatori adulmecatori
munténi munteni
ceia­lalți ceialalți
Milostivu Milostiv
vădu văd
Barbovschii Barbovschi
zidiia zidia
sfétnicilor sfetnicilor
turcu turc
Biasovschii Biasovschi
Naculeștii Naculești
Nistru Nistr
friptu fript
îm­prumutat împrumutat
çĺěëè çĺěëe
Italiia Italia
maramorășénilor maramorășenilor
maziliia mazilia
Mol­dovenești Moldovenești
lăcuiescu lăcuiesc
țigănéște țigănește
ngrijiia ngrijia
VI­ VI
a­ceste aceste
do­bitocul dobitocul
în­tâmplă întâmplă
stăpâ­nirea stăpânirea
ne­vrednici nevrednici
acmŭ acm
Obicéiu Obiceiu
slujitorescŭ slujitoresc
știindŭ ștind
învârtejitu învârtejit
așăzatu așăzat
apéle apele
pomenitu pomenit
Liviile Livile
conceniia concenia
lovitŭ lovit
Mihălcéni Mihălceni
Sci­ților Sciților
Copițchii Copițchi
Joreștii Jorești
re­comenduește recomenduește
mersése mersese
craiŭ craiu
lu­crurile lucrurile
cestorŭ cestor
cunos­când cunoscând
a­decă adecă
milostivu milostiv
orașŭ oraș
gânditu gândit
brașovénii brașoveni
Lascu Lasc
Preacistii Preacisti
Pliniie Plinie
înștiin­țează înștințează
Țarigradu Țarigrad
răsăritŭ răsărit
­Agasi Agasi
îm­părăției împărăției
nemuritoriŭ nemuritoriu
păr­țile părțile
spurcatŭ spurcat
molténi molteni
dom­nească domnească
tineréțe tinerețe
bulu bul
priieteni prieteni
adunatŭ adunat
teméi temei
biséreca bisereca
sfătuiescu sfătuiesc
miiaze miaze
jilăvéște jilăvește
veniia venia
Burgheleștii Burghelești
Ro­manilor Romanilor
cării cări
numescu numesc
poftorescu poftoresc
întorsu întors
Constan­tin Constantin
zicândŭ zicând
înfrânsése înfrânsese
datoriia datoria
pohtéște pohtește
năvă­litorilor năvălitorilor
pu­tem putem
scri­soarea scrisoarea
Daniil Danil
Rohatinu Rohatin
lipsiia lipsia
râmlenescu râmlenesc
vezirii veziri
célui celui
Maramoroșŭ Maramoroș
Historiie Historie
fiindŭ find
oblicitu oblicit
Acestŭ Acest
omorâtu omorât
urnescŭ urnesc
dom­nia domnia
chel­tuirea cheltuirea
léșii leși
înăl­țărei înălțărei
citéște citește
cu­vinte cuvinte
lipsăscŭ lipsăsc
pribégii pribegi
domnu domn
ca­rele carele
harvații harvați
véde vede
Mitro­politul Mitropolitul
tu­iuri tuiuri
Moldovii Moldovi
Putérnicul Puternicul
Rădăuții Rădăuți
chirhesarii chirhesari
Cadilischierii Cadilischieri
Rareșu Rareș
des­calecă descalecă
Mireștii Mirești
nădéjde nădejde
Moțoceștii Moțocești
Grumădzești Grumăzești
créderea crederea
Crezŭ Crez
cuprindŭ cuprind
priietini prietini
avândŭ având
patriarșii patriarși
létopisețului letopisețului
zicu zic
dațescŭ dațesc
Spă­tarului Spătarului
Dragoșeștii Dragoșești
priietinu prietin
moldovenescŭ moldovenesc
véci veci
părétile păretile
neintrebându neintrebând
încunjuratu încunjurat
gréle grele
țaru țar
Podoliia Podolia
sprinteniie sprintenie
Mateiașu Mateiaș
țerimonii țerimoni
untudelemnŭ untudelemn
vred­nicie vrednicie
priimitu primit
pârcălabu pârcălab
îngroziia îngrozia
cu­nunia cununia
cădzut căzut
tinsu tins
sicriiu sicriu
țiltiberii țiltiberi
potu pot
tainții tainți
italiiani italiani
Panoniia Panonia
po­runca porunca
întréce întrece
vinețiienii vinețienii
porușnicii porușnici
întâm­plare întâmplare
des­copere descopere
nepriietinilor neprietinilor
bete­șugului beteșugului
italianii italiani
Čńďèňŕèňĺ Čńďeňŕeňĺ
acéa acea
așezămân­turi așezământuri
Cérnăuți Cernăuți
féte fete
necoprinsŭ necoprins
avgustu avgust
rusescu rusesc
științi știnți
miiazănoapte miazănoapte
so­cotindu socotind
pohtescu pohtesc
ltaliia ltalia
Hăndii Hăndi
întrându întrând
lovitu lovit
po­runci porunci
în­dreptează îndreptează
Ianoșu Ianoș
alége alege
vitéjii viteji
mâniia mânia
strâmtu strâmt
porun­cilor poruncilor
lăcuiescŭ lăcuiesc
chizmindu chizmind
vécinicŭ vecinic
Prutu Prut
prove­dință provedință
italiianii italianii
ascuțiia ascuția
ca­sei casei
vedérea vederea
cu­getă cugetă
slobozitu slobozit
priimiră primiră
putérnic puternic
fiéștecine fieștecine
orașu oraș
Ghengeștii Ghengești
machidonénilor machidonenilor
dégite degite
pedepséște pedepsește
numescŭ numesc
Tămășeștii Tămășești
Piotru Piotr
șezândŭ șezând
odihnindŭ odihnind
pă­rinții părinți
sabiia sabia
acés aces
ziditu zidit
pré pre
Beslii Besli
Bicazu Bicaz
li­pit lipit
Capi­gi Capigi
întorsŭ întors
vorŭ vor
Rastiia Rastia
cei­lalți ceilalți
Mănăs­tirilor Mănăstirilor
învingă­toare învingătoare
cerce­tează cercetează
méșterșuguri meșterșuguri
cân­tând cântând
Tesaliia Tesalia
Aceștiia Aceștia
Polihronu Polihron
crizacii crizaci
Pos­telnicul Postelnicul
martiru martir
fru­mos frumos
româniia românia
de­cât decât
odihnitu odihnit
ne­dreaptă nedreaptă
légea legea
boie­rești boierești
sultanu sultan
aprinsu aprins
Acestu Acest
îndireptatu îndireptat
Laschii Laschi
fieștecă­ruia fieștecăruia
casii casi
Uréchie Urechie
plecatu plecat
sfin­țitele sfințitele
luptândŭ luptând
neștiind neștind
deprin­dere deprindere
Direptu Dirept
îna­poi înapoi
necu­viință necuvință
domnŭ domn
po­runcă poruncă
tică­loșie ticăloșie
plă­cerea plăcerea
Licaoniia Licaonia
Sinavschii Sinavschi
Ciuhru Ciuhr
Logo­fătul Logofătul
înștiin­țare înștințare
cerimonii cerimoni
bisérică biserică
Fiindŭ Find
sluțiia sluția
Trațiia Trația
po­triveștesă potriveștesă
îndărătu îndărăt
rescum­pără rescumpără
siliia silia
urzitŭ urzit
omoriia omoria
ceriŭ ceriu
blagoslovitu blagoslovit
Cadileschiarii Cadileschiari
obicéiu obiceiu
Eghipetu Eghipet
răzbitu răzbit
dovedindŭ dovedind
ade­veri adeveri
pățitu pățit
frângiia frângia
zidindŭ zidind
niiamul niamul
sloboadză sloboază
vécinică vecinică
stăpâ­nească stăpânească
ase­menea asemenea
scofii scofi
aciiaș aciaș
încunjuratŭ încunjurat
boerii boeri
socotéle socotele
Radu Rad
mu­zicanți muzicanți
râmlénii râmleni
îndem­nându îndemnând
nevinovatii nevinovati
mérse merse
putérea puterea
Odrivozu Odrivoz
Dom­nului Domnului
Prutețu Pruteț
leniia lenia
Fălciilor Fălcilor
tâmplatu tâmplat
nepu­tând neputând
shibénii shibeni
Tatarii Tatari
pornitŭ pornit
Evtropii Evtropi
Ghieții Ghieți
diva­nului divanului
mortŭ mort
pu­teau puteau
creștinescu creștinesc
bè be
ceaușu ceauș
socotitu socotit
a­devăr adevăr
abiia abia
durére durere
curténi curteni
lătinéște lătinește
Molodețu Molodeț
acoperitŭ acoperit
Chiulahliilor Chiulahlilor
păscărescu păscăresc
înhierbântatu înhierbântat
stă­pânire stăpânire
Aflatu Aflat
teméiu temeiu
nepriietin neprietin
cutezatu cutezat
némișu nemiș
Iliiașu Iliaș
pecétea pecetea
însemnezŭ însemnez
féliul feliul
jă­luitorul jăluitorul
céia ceia
Fru­mos Frumos
lu­minat luminat
buzdu­ganul buzduganul
gătéște gătește
doamnii doamni
bu­zele buzele
Sinévschii Sinevschi
adeve­rează adeverează
pre­cum precum
Maelatu Maelat
călcatŭ călcat
acéiaș aceiaș
adusése adusese
aicè aice
po­porul poporul
po­runcește poruncește
Șepteliceștii Șeptelicești
chéme cheme
în­tors întors
vinețiienilor vinețienilor
rămăsése rămăsese
prilejitu prilejit
leatu leat
luân­du luând
fugiia fugia
Dom­nească Domnească
Iedeclii Iedecli
degrabu degrab
protivnici­lor protivnicilor
Daciile Dacile
Doniceștii Donicești
italiianŭ italian
agiunsu agiuns
nea­muri neamuri
vistie­riea vistieriea
curățiia curăția
slăvéște slăvește
lăsămŭ lăsăm
bohemii bohemi
obicéiurile obiceiurile
osmanidu osmanid
Catargieștii Catargiești
strejii streji
céle cele
Moldo­vean Moldovean
anu an
pământu­lui pământului
Olbrihtu Olbriht
Négre Negre
iscusénii iscuseni
vădzu văz
troadéni troadeni
scriitoriu scritoriu
poméni pomeni
amăgitu amăgit
grijindu grijind
neajunsŭ neajuns
Féliul Feliul
Crupențscheștii Crupențschești
po­runcească poruncească
iunii iuni
numărŭ număr
flămânzitu flămânzit
prepuindu prepuind
neade­vărate neadevărate
turcescu turcesc
latinéște latinește
ĺäèíî ĺäeíî
scădérea scăderea
célea celea
junghiia junghia
bi­serica biserica
Râmŭ Râm
coprindiia coprindia
lipsitŭ lipsit
în­tărit întărit
Galațienii Galațieni
vistieriia vistieria
armândŭ armând
lémnelor lemnelor
intrebatu intrebat
Calabriia Calabria
nu­mărul numărul
tă­cere tăcere
su­pusă supusă
dzăli zăli
tiparnicii tiparnici
locŭ loc
fétii feti
lăcuitu lăcuit
méșterșug meșterșug
deliia delia
priimească primească
Odriiului Odriului
Paladeștii Paladești
pri­cepere pricepere
fecio­riei fecioriei
Viiotia Viotia
schitii schiti
snopiia snopia
prinsu prins
pământŭ pământ
băr­băție bărbăție
leșăscu leșăsc
apropiiareți apropiareți
chiematu chiemat
tri­mete trimete
Cotnarii Cotnari
dogânditu dogândit
Theodoziia Theodozia
ghiurgii ghiurgi
ni­menea nimenea
Iățindu Iățind
suptŭ supt
Armeniile Armenile
lége lege
vicléni vicleni
demultu demult
da­ruri daruri
moldovéni moldoveni
îm­pedecat împedecat
deo­sebit deosebit
Pâr­călabi Pârcălabi
că­mărașul cămărașul
celŭ cel
de­părtișor depărtișor
pornitu pornit
lorŭ lor
pământu pământ
Doneștii Donești
je­luirii jeluiri
rân­dueală rândueală
cumplitu cumplit
adunatu adunat
Arhiman­dritul Arhimandritul
oarecându oarecând
Chiriaceștii Chiriacești
Pâr­călabii Pârcălabi
întăriia întăria
neputinții neputinți
Deciia Decia
îmblânziia îmblânzia
Vor­nicului Vornicului
bolnavu bolnav
Domentiian Domentian
Împărățiia Împărăția
plinu plin
câți­va câțiva
coprinsése coprinsese
domnișoru domnișor
îm­bracă îmbracă
Brescu Bresc
Ciogoleștii Ciogolești
ară­tând arătând
acoperiè acoperie
nici­odată niciodată
cuvântu cuvânt
Dom­niei Domniei
moldové moldove
oas­peților oaspeților
Ciolpanu Ciolpan
zécilea zecilea
coprinsu coprins
sații sați
simănatu simănat
tragŭ trag
tréce trece
urzitoriŭ urzitoriu
asupréle asuprele
Vis­teriei Visteriei
zâcându zâcând
spieriiat spieriat
vrăjmășiia vrăjmășia
naș­terea nașterea
silitu silit
pier­dut pierdut
împodo­bită împodobită
socotiia socotia
asémene asemene
Istriia Istria
Novii Novi
zidu zid
turcitu turcit
créde crede
Coronii Coroni
Venglinschii Venglinschi
Mircii Mirci
urmă­torul următorul
lățéște lățește
Pia­zițius Piazițius
trăgănatu trăgănat
lceagalerii lceagaleri
amiiazăzi amiazăzi
poves­tind povestind
neméstnic nemestnic
ase­menează asemenează
dintăiŭ dintăiu
sa­hastri sahastri
Bantoșeștii Bantoșești
Buorenii Buoreni
acopieritu acopierit
Altŭ Alt
ficléni ficleni
moldovenescu moldovenesc
lo­cuesc locuesc
vețschii vețschi
eriticii eritici
zicŭ zic
os­tașii ostași
megiiașii megiașii
Preacuratii Preacurati
cădiia cădia
moșu moș
aju­tor ajutor
Pisoscheștii Pisoschești
Țibăneștii Țibănești
pli­nesc plinesc
dispotu dispot
bătândŭ bătând
vitejăscu vitejăsc
povestitu povestit
méle mele
viiața viața
prostu prost
vino­vată vinovată
întracéia întraceia
ruséște rusește
pri­cinuit pricinuit
auziia auzia
mărtoriia mărtoria
discălicatŭ discălicat
dé de
a­șează așează
mirodeniia mirodenia
lipsitu lipsit
întâm­plându întâmplând
țiitoriul țitoriul
pe­treacă petreacă
fămée fămee
fra­tele fratele
geneologiile geneologile
însemnatu însemnat
loru lor
ple­cați plecați
fiéștece fieștece
Capuchihaie­lele Capuchihaielele
véstea vestea
Maramorășŭ Maramorăș
obicéiuri obiceiuri
curățitu curățit
léfe lefe
vrăjma­șilor vrăjmașilor
Suceviții Suceviți
Némții Nemți
slăbitu slăbit
trimisu trimis
scăpatu scăpat
hereghiia hereghia
oa­menii oameni
asu­pra asupra
pristăniia pristănia
falanxŭ falanx
creștinu creștin
blându blând
ve­dere vedere
ajutorindu ajutorind
închină­ciune închinăciune
deplinu deplin
Durăceștii Durăcești
nemernicu nemernic
lăsatu lăsat
demultŭ demult
Targovețschii Targovețschi
priiteșugul priteșugul
judéțile județile
ibării ibări
sin­gur singur
ru­deniile rudenile
Moldo­venii Moldoveni
îndrăznețu îndrăzneț
Capu­chihaia Capuchihaia
voitoriŭ voitoriu
făciia făcia
ajutoriŭ ajutoriu
Dom­nilor Domnilor
învoindu învoind
încinsu încins
lip­sească lipsească
împărătescu împărătesc
Olimbiia Olimbia
grabu grab
su­părat supărat
Schiiei Schiei
Dioclitiian Dioclitian
ardeléni ardeleni
râmlénilor râmlenilor
Sirét Siret
săténi săteni
tu­nurile tunurile
ve­derat vederat
iu­bitor iubitor
culoglŭ culogl
ves­tea vestea
dântru dântr
nepotu nepot
unguréști ungurești
Cozminu Cozmin
stri­cându stricând
Baezitu Baezit
Rodéște Rodește
hanu han
bucă­tarului bucătarului
orheienii orheieni
unguréște ungurește
suptu supt
Fălcenii Fălceni
pristănitu pristănit
moșiia moșia
somnu somn
védére vedere
zălojindu zălojind
cosahiianii cosahianii
oblă­duitorilor oblăduitorilor
rusii rusi
stă­pânului stăpânului
rădicatu rădicat
Hăbășeștii Hăbășești
Lusitaniia Lusitania
troadenii troadeni
vârtejitu vârtejit
supăratu supărat
lucratu lucrat
dvoréște dvorește
pârjolitu pârjolit
țe­rimonie țerimonie
datu dat
truditu trudit
Segbanii Segbani
legatŭ legat
baschirdarii baschirdari
vrândŭ vrând
Ficioarii Ficioari
Vi­zirul Vizirul
nemțéște nemțește
zatocenii zatoceni
Pilețchii Pilețchi
aceiiaș aceiaș
tă­gădui tăgădui
fusésă fusesă
trăiescŭ trăiesc
Odriiul Odriul
Patriar­hiei Patriarhiei
încurcatu încurcat
presémne presemne
sluji­torii slujitori
Heraclu Heracl
înăl­țatul înălțatul
lunecatŭ lunecat
Indiia India
Zamovschii Zamovschi
putiia putia
su­mei sumei
hotă­răște hotărăște
măriia măria
în­greuiat îngreuiat
strânsu strâns
asu­prași asuprași
judéților judeților
astinhaveanii astinhaveani
Nesvoiovschii Nesvoiovschi
sa­mănă samănă
Romaniia Romania
bine­cuvântat binecuvântat
Cărăbățu Cărăbăț
moldove­nească moldovenească
împrăș­tieți împrăștieți
sémnele semnele
altŭ alt
Buciațschii Buciațschi
trăgănatŭ trăgănat
fiiul fiul
historicŭ historic
cerchiezii cerchiezi
Dii Di
turciloru turcilor
închiiat închiat
Aicé Aice
în­ceput început
Aicè Aice
Dom­nul Domnul
moldovénii moldoveni
Vasilicu Vasilic
hri­sovul hrisovul
știia știa
Benderu Bender
Dra­goș Dragoș
topitu topit
mărgu mărg
amă­gesc amăgesc
niguțătorii niguțători
grăiescu grăiesc
Șchéi Șchei
Vlahiia Vlahia
Jiiului Jiului
sâr­guinții sârguinți
luundu luund
domnéște domnește
poruncitoriŭ poruncitoriu
însemnatŭ însemnat
viiață viață
Dra­gomanii Dragomani
avusése avusese
Machidoniia Machidonia
așezatu așezat
hotărăscu hotărăsc
postélnicul postelnicul
Véveriță Veveriță
putére putere
Crâmŭ Crâm
discălicatu discălicat
vedére vedere
descălecândŭ descălecând
poroncéște poroncește
în­științat înștințat
slabu slab
sémnile semnile
déciia decia
fusése fusese
hiroto­niei hirotoniei
dintracéste dintraceste
létopiseț letopiseț
Smilu Smil
Pătru Pătr
Slatinii Slatini
curundu curund
flămânzescu flămânzesc
Dom­nii Domni
păs­torii păstori
Paharniceii Paharnicei
Alexandru Alexandr
Alpii Alpi
obi­ceiu obiceiu
striinilor strinilor
istețu isteț
coprindu coprind
Chihaia­lele Chihaialele
sasii sasi
ță­rani țărani
groaznicu groaznic
Chi­haea Chihaea
ispitiia ispitia
blândŭ blând
rămâindu rămâind
Dom­nie Domnie
încălăratu încălărat
șestacii șestaci
biia bia
Ro­man Roman
Dom­nia Domnia
săriia săria
sositŭ sosit
suferiia suferia
Hușu Huș
tirăniia tirănia
zavistiia zavistia
clirono­mului clironomului
mortu mort
Huru Hur
Verbiia Verbia
nemérnici nemernici
primiia primia
vitéjilor vitejilor
Ar­hiepiscopul Arhiepiscopul
curtezenii curtezeni
sfărămându sfărămând
Mol­doveni Moldoveni
petrecănii petrecăni
îngă­duește îngăduește
Taifalii Taifali
vitejéști vitejești
Uréche Ureche
băjăniile băjănile
scau­nului scaunului
cercândŭ cercând
vitejéște vitejește
Balșeștii Balșești
Chi­haielele Chihaielele
trăiescu trăiesc
Flo­renția Florenția
trâm­bițe trâmbițe
ienicéri ieniceri
hatmanulcu hatmanulc
to­tuși totuși
cestu cest
aciiași aciași
blândéțe blândețe
dăpărtatu dăpărtat
iubiia iubia
cnézii cnezi
celei­lalte celeilalte
Muntenéști Muntenești
Focșanii Focșani
Barnoschii Barnoschi
harțu harț
istoriia istoria
sfân­tului sfântului
célelalte celelalte
împresuratu împresurat
ră­sadniță răsadniță
déderă dederă
gioséni gioseni
Theoctistu Theoctist
Sfirciovschii Sfirciovschi
înoptatu înoptat
timpinându timpinând
munténilor muntenilor
mă­sura măsura
Zicu Zic
încetatu încetat
striine strine
vre­unei vreunei
năvăléște năvălește
Schitiia Schitia
învrednicindu învrednicind
Capu­chihaea Capuchihaea
sfétnicii sfetnici
cunoscân­du cunoscând
părtenéște părtenește
amŭ am
viclénii vicleni
Hăndiia Hăndia
apă­rare apărare
négre negre
strânsŭ strâns
Fecioarii Fecioari
sangeagii sangeagi
moldovenéște moldovenește
socotéște socotește
raventu ravent
ferescŭ feresc
șezutu șezut
co­răbiile corăbile
Crăiia Crăia
Chi­haia Chihaia
Ieremiia Ieremia
spieriiatu spieriat
în­groape îngroape
anŭ an
Săverii Săveri
sŭ su
dăscăliia dăscălia
hrănescu hrănesc
Mun­teanul Munteanul
viteazu viteaz
milos­tenii milosteni
armatu armat
ră­săritului răsăritului
biséricile bisericile
bise­rica biserica
în­drepteze îndrepteze
Stiriia Stiria
Sțitiia Sțitia
largŭ larg
vădzindu văzind
pohtitu pohtit
Vinețiia Vineția
Răusénii Răuseni
Capu Cap
smintitu smintit
rășchiratu rășchirat
Dra­cul Dracul
Micleștii Miclești
următoriŭ următoriu
râdiia râdia
mărgŭ mărg
Medelnicériu Medelniceriu
neamțu neamț
aciia acia
Hesperiia Hesperia
mor­ții morți
crăiasii crăiasi
Aréni Areni
mi­reasa mireasa
deprindzindu deprinzind
așezatŭ așezat
noaosprăzéce noaosprăzece
grijindŭ grijind
pusu pus
a­ceștia aceștia
adâncŭ adânc
Ropceneștii Ropcenești
Buhușeștii Buhușești
locu loc
acéștea aceștea
șanțŭ șanț
diiavolului diavolului
Slijiia Slijia
Sarni­țius Sarnițius
Pocutiia Pocutia
Siraschii Siraschi
Citéște Citește
dezmierdatŭ dezmierdat
